10 Gross interest 2026
Complete question 10 to declare interest you received or are credited from any source in Australia.
Last updated 30 May 2026

Print or Download

Things you need to know

Declare at this question interest you received or were credited to you from any source in Australia, including accounts and term deposits held with financial institutions in Australia. This includes:

- interest we paid or credited to you

- interest from children's accounts you opened or operated with funds that belong to you or funds you used as if they belong to you.

For more information on children's accounts, see Taxation Determination TD 2017/11 Income tax: who should be assessed to interest on bank accounts?

Show distributions of interest you received, or were entitled to receive, from a partnership or trust (including a cash management trust, property trust, unit trust or other similar trust investment product) in the supplementary tax return at question 13 Partnerships and trusts 2026 .

Show interest from a foreign source in the supplementary tax return at question 20 Foreign source income and foreign assets or property 2026 .

If you didn't receive or weren't credited interest from any source in Australia, go to question 11 Dividends 2026 .

What you need to answer this question

You'll need:

- your statements or other documents from your financial institutions and other sources that show 2025-26 interest income

- any statement of account or notice of assessment (or amended assessment) you received from us during 2025-26 that shows interest we paid or credited to you - for example

- interest on early payments

- interest on overpayments

- delayed refund interest.

TFN amounts are amounts of tax withheld by financial institutions because you didn't give them your TFN or ABN. TFN amounts show on your statement or document as 'Commonwealth tax' or 'TFN withholding tax'. You must show these amounts as gross interest in your tax return.

If you were a foreign resident when you received or were credited with the interest, don't include it here. For information on non-resident withholding tax on these amounts, see Non-resident withholding tax - Gross interest .

If you had any joint accounts, show only your share of the interest. This will be half if you held the account equally with one other person. Keep a record of how you worked out your proportion if you and the other account holders didn't share the amounts of interest equally.

Completing your tax return

To complete this question, follow the steps.

Step 1

Add up the amounts of gross interest you received in 2025-26.

Step 2

Write the total amount of your gross interest at question 10 - label L . Don't show cents. If the total was less than $1, don't write anything.

Step 3

Add up all the TFN amounts from your statements, but don't include TFN amounts that we have already refunded to you. Write the total, including cents at question 10 - label M .

Where to go next

- Go to question 11 Dividends 2026 .

- Return to main menu Individual tax return instructions 2026 .

- Go back to question Total tax withheld 2026 .

QC 106591

Print or Download
